startalk we're back
featuring my interview with the
british physicist Brian Cox
so I had to bring up the fact
that he and I had like a Twitter
argument over the physics of
light sabers
haha yeah and I just had to
bring it up and just open up old
wounds yeah right let's find out
how it went down
I don't remember how this
happened i think i tweeted
something about wife team and
then you jumped in and then
people just wanted to fight
yeah it was good deep fried
I think I said if lightsabers
are made of white
yeah then they could surely do
damage by cutting things but
they would not stop one another
the way two swords would in a in
a swashbuckling encounter that
this that's all I said there's a
process that I i I've studied
actually photon photon are gamma
gamma scattering we college ok
so we measured process it
particle accelerators so very
high energies very high energy
collisions there is a
probability that photons will
kick off each of the fans off
engine rather than just passed
through it so it's remarkable
remarkable property of particle
physics so they don't interact
so I can look at you and all
these other ones that are flying
because they're don't mess up
this view of you but actually
radio waves and microwaves your
first name
yeah yeah I fire all over the
place nothing two colliding but
actually when you go up high end
to high energies then be the
probability that photons or
climate sugar increases and one
of the interesting things to
cosmic rays physics that you
might know that is that there's
a cut off yes we're lucky cut
off
yeah well whether the cosmic
rays can be such a high energy
that the probability they'll
bounce off the photons in the
cosmic microwave background
becomes high so it so my point
was just a technical one that
photons do have a there's a
probability they'll collide
together even if you had this
high energy all trying is your
lightsaber
it would have to be really
really high energy white slavery
and so now you know this would
come into the regime that you're
describing and they would come
in contact and they would you
would feel this
you did that interact with each
other wrist like this like these
things in training
ok what I loved about that
though as you said was i love
that
at those and there's an audience
for that that kind of
interaction that we had in each
case really geeky right because
you're talking about light
sabers
I had no the physics of the
likes appreciated how much
people geek out over there